Another
useful method of arrays is join. So here we have this numbers array
let's say we want to join the elements in this array. That's when we use
the join method. So we call numbers.join
now look at this parameter here, separate. Note the
question mark. Whenever you see a question mark, that means this parameter
is optional, and you can see this type of parameter is a string
so here we can optionally pass a string and this
string will be used as a separate. So let's say we want to join
these elements using a comma. So we pass comma as a string here,
right? And note that this joint method returns
a string. So, we get the result and store it
in a constant called joined. Now,
let's log it on the console, joined.
Save the changes, here's the result.
Another useful method that goes hand and hand with join is the
split method, but this method is not part. of arrays, it's part of
strings, but let me show you how it works. So lets say we have
a string called message like this.
This is my first message.
Now we can split the sentence like this. So message.
split, again here we need to pass the separator
string so let's say we want to separate this using
a white space. Now this method will return
an array, so let's call that parts
now let's take a look at that array on the console,
okay, so, here's the array, we have five elements
here, note that each element in this array is a word
in our original message. Now that we have an array we can use the joy
method, to combine these elements using a separator.
So, let's say parts.join
you can combine them using a hyphen,
and store the result in combined and finally
log it on the console. So here's
the result. This is my first message. This technique is particularly
useful when building a URL slug. Let me show you what I mean
by that. So, here I've got this page open
on stack overflow.com. Read the title of this question,
creating arrays in JavaScript. So here is what the user posted
as you can see we have white space in between each word, but we cannot have a
white space in url's so if you look at this url here,
note the title of question, converted to a
url slug. So all the white spaces are
replaced with a hyphen. So as part of converting the title of the
question to a url slug, you'll have to split this string
perhaps throw out some of the words, replace some of the words
with other words, and then eventually combine them using
the hyphen as you can see here.